All the world's a stage, and all the men and women merely players: they have their exits and their entrances; and one man in his time plays many parts, his acts being seven ages.
A fool thinks himself to be wise, but a wise man knows himself to be a fool.
Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind, And therefore is winged Cupid painted blind.
Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them.
The course of true love never did run smooth.
Ignorance is the curse of God; knowledge is the wing wherewith we fly to heaven.
Love sought is good, but given unsought, is better.
It is the stars, The stars above us, govern our conditions.
Top 10
And this, our life, exempt from public haunt, finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks, sermons in stones, and good in everything.
If you prick us do we not bleed? If you tickle us do we not laugh? If you poison us do we not die? And if you wrong us shall we not revenge?
Our doubts are traitors and make us lose the good we oft might win by fearing to attempt.
One touch of nature makes the whole world kin.
If music be the food of love, play on.
What a piece of work is a man, how noble in reason, how infinite in faculties, in form and moving how express and admirable, in action how like an angel, in apprehension how like a god.
Things won are done, joy's soul lies in the doing.
False face must hide what the false heart doth know.
Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice.
What's in a name? That which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet.
Talking isn't doing. It is a kind of good deed to say well; and yet words are not deeds.
Go to you bosom: Knock there, and ask your heart what it doth know.
The very substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
How far that little candle throws its beams! So shines a good deed in a naughty world.
This life, which had been the tomb of his virtue and of his honour, is but a walking shadow; a poor player, that struts and frets his hour upon the stage, and then is heard no more: it is a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing.
How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is to have a thankless child!
Love is too young to know what conscience is.
To do a great right do a little wrong.
Give thy thoughts no tongue.
There is a tide in the affairs of men, Which taken at the flood, leads on to fortune. Omitted, all the voyage of their life is bound in shallows and in miseries. On such a full sea are we now afloat. And we must take the current when it serves, or lose our ventures.
Doubt thou the stars are fire, Doubt that the sun doth move. Doubt truth to be a liar, But never doubt I love.
O' What may man within him hide, though angel on the outward side!
If we are marked to die, we are enough to do our country loss; and if to live, the fewer men, the greater share of honor.
Sweet are the uses of adversity which, like the toad, ugly and venomous, wears yet a precious jewel in his head.
Better a witty fool than a foolish wit.
O! for a muse of fire, that would ascend the brightest heaven of invention.
It is not in the stars to hold our destiny but in ourselves.
As flies to wanton boys, are we to the gods; they kill us for their sport.
This above all; to thine own self be true.
Fortune brings in some boats that are not steered.
Love is not love that alters when it alteration finds.
The robbed that smiles, steals something from the thief.
Let me embrace thee, sour adversity, for wise men say it is the wisest course.
God has given you one face, and you make yourself another.
I wasted time, and now doth time waste me.
My crown is called content, a crown that seldom kings enjoy.
Love all, trust a few, do wrong to none.
To thine own self be true, and it must follow, as the night the day, thou canst not then be false to any man.
As soon go kindle fire with snow, as seek to quench the fire of love with words.
Love is a smoke made with the fume of sighs.
The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
There is nothing either good or bad but thinking makes it so.
What is past is prologue.
I dote on his very absence.
And why not death rather than living torment? To die is to be banish'd from myself; And Silvia is myself: banish'd from her Is self from self: a deadly banishment!
The stroke of death is as a lover's pinch, which hurts and is desired.
Things done well and with a care, exempt themselves from fear.
It is a wise father that knows his own child.
The love of heaven makes one heavenly.
The man that hath no music in himself, Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds, is fit for treasons, stratagems and spoils.
Where every something, being blent together turns to a wild of nothing.
We cannot conceive of matter being formed of nothing, since things require a seed to start from... Therefore there is not anything which returns to nothing, but all things return dissolved into their elements.
Fishes live in the sea, as men do a-land; the great ones eat up the little ones.
When sorrows come, they come not single spies, but in battalions.
Most dangerous is that temptation that doth goad us on to sin in loving virtue.
Kindness in women, not their beauteous looks, shall win my love.
Desire of having is the sin of covetousness.
Lawless are they that make their wills their law.
'Tis not enough to help the feeble up, but to support them after.
Use every man after his desert, and who should scape whipping?
Sweet mercy is nobility's true badge.
The most peaceable way for you, if you do take a thief, is, to let him show himself what he is and steal out of your company.
I was adored once too.
Neither a borrower nor a lender be.
The evil that men do lives after them; the good is oft interred with their bones.
Is it not strange that desire should so many years outlive performance?
He that loves to be flattered is worthy o' the flatterer.
My pride fell with my fortunes.
Words, words, mere words, no matter from the heart.
Ambition should be made of sterner stuff.
Farewell, fair cruelty.
Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown.
So foul and fair a day I have not seen.
I will praise any man that will praise me.
Give me my robe, put on my crown; I have Immortal longings in me.
I bear a charmed life.
They say miracles are past.
The attempt and not the deed confounds us.
The wheel is come full circle.
If you have tears, prepare to shed them now.
If you can look into the seeds of time, and say which grain will grow and which will not, speak then unto me.
The lunatic, the lover, and the poet, are of imagination all compact.
A peace is of the nature of a conquest; for then both parties nobly are subdued, and neither party loser.
Heat not a furnace for your foe so hot that it do singe yourself.
Men shut their doors against a setting sun.
In time we hate that which we often fear.
How poor are they that have not patience! What wound did ever heal but by degrees?
Modest doubt is called the beacon of the wise.
To be, or not to be, that is the question.
'Tis one thing to be tempted, another thing to fall.
He is winding the watch of his wit; by and by it will strike.
He that is giddy thinks the world turns round.
There is no darkness but ignorance.
As he was valiant, I honour him. But as he was ambitious, I slew him.
By that sin fell the angels.
They do not love that do not show their love.
Let no such man be trusted.
Better three hours too soon than a minute too late.
Time and the hour run through the roughest day.
Exceeds man's might: that dwells with the gods above.
Mind your speech a little lest you should mar your fortunes.
Good night, good night! Parting is such sweet sorrow, that I shall say good night till it be morrow.
Nothing can come of nothing.
The undiscovered country from whose bourn no traveler returns.
O thou invisible spirit of wine, if thou hast no name to be known by, let us call thee devil.
Life every man holds dear; but the dear man holds honor far more precious dear than life.
The empty vessel makes the loudest sound.
Lord, Lord, how subject we old men are to this vice of lying!
In a false quarrel there is no true valor.
O, had I but followed the arts!
O God, O God, how weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable seem to me all the uses of this world!
The valiant never taste of death but once.
If to do were as easy as to know what were good to do, chapels had been churches, and poor men's cottage princes' palaces.
Suit the action to the word, the word to the action.
He does it with better grace, but I do it more natural.
There's no art to find the mind's construction in the face.
If it be a sin to covet honor, I am the most offending soul.
Poor and content is rich, and rich enough.
Like as the waves make towards the pebbl'd shore, so do our minutes, hasten to their end.
Maids want nothing but husbands, and when they have them, they want everything.
Many a good hanging prevents a bad marriage.
Boldness be my friend.
For my part, it was Greek to me.
Having nothing, nothing can he lose.
Men are April when they woo, December when they wed. Maids are May when they are maids, but the sky changes when they are wives.
Words without thoughts never to heaven go.
I shall the effect of this good lesson keeps as watchman to my heart.
Children wish fathers looked but with their eyes; fathers that children with their judgment looked; and either may be wrong.
Now, God be praised, that to believing souls gives light in darkness, comfort in despair.
O! Let me not be mad, not mad, sweet heaven; keep me in temper; I would not be mad!
How oft the sight of means to do ill deeds makes ill deeds done!
Life is as tedious as twice-told tale, vexing the dull ear of a drowsy man.
Now is the winter of our discontent.
Wisely, and slow. They stumble that run fast.
When words are scarce they are seldom spent in vain.
There's place and means for every man alive.
Some rise by sin, and some by virtue fall.
Pleasure and action make the hours seem short.
What's done can't be undone.
Suspicion always haunts the guilty mind.
Such as we are made of, such we be.
Men's vows are women's traitors!
Listen to many, speak to a few.
An overflow of good converts to bad.
'Tis best to weigh the enemy more mighty than he seems.
No, I will be the pattern of all patience; I will say nothing.
'Tis better to bear the ills we have than fly to others that we know not of.
And oftentimes excusing of a fault doth make the fault the worse by the excuse.
Teach not thy lip such scorn, for it was made For kissing, lady, not for such contempt.
I hold the world but as the world, Gratiano; A stage where every man must play a part, And mine is a sad one.
Death is a fearful thing.
Alas, I am a woman friendless, hopeless!
What, man, defy the devil. Consider, he's an enemy to mankind.
For I can raise no money by vile means.
There have been many great men that have flattered the people who ne'er loved them.
Women may fall when there's no strength in men.
Come, gentlemen, I hope we shall drink down all unkindness.
I may neither choose who I would, nor refuse who I dislike; so is the will of a living daughter curbed by the will of a dead father.
Well, if Fortune be a woman, she's a good wench for this gear.
A man loves the meat in his youth that he cannot endure in his age.
I never see thy face but I think upon hell-fire.
O, what a goodly outside falsehood hath!
But men are men; the best sometimes forget.
There's many a man has more hair than wit.
There's not a note of mine that's worth the noting.
I had rather have a fool to make me merry than experience to make me sad and to travel for it too!
There was never yet fair woman but she made mouths in a glass.
I were better to be eaten to death with a rust than to be scoured to nothing with perpetual motion.
Our peace shall stand as firm as rocky mountains.
God hath given you one face, and you make yourselves another.
The fashion of the world is to avoid cost, and you encounter it.
I say there is no darkness but ignorance.
But O, how bitter a thing it is to look into happiness through another man's eyes.
I see that the fashion wears out more apparel than the man.
Nature hath framed strange fellows in her time.
Virtue itself scapes not calumnious strokes.
Virtue is bold, and goodness never fearful.
Truly, I would not hang a dog by my will, much more a man who hath any honesty in him.
How well he's read, to reason against reading!
I like not fair terms and a villain's mind.
Faith, there hath been many great men that have flattered the people who ne'er loved them.
We are time's subjects, and time bids be gone.
Praise us as we are tasted, allow us as we prove.
We are such stuff as dreams are made on; and our little life is rounded with a sleep.
But if it be a sin to covet honour, I am the most offending soul alive.
There are many events in the womb of time, which will be delivered.
